docs/index.rst, before:

================================
pysharedutils User Documentation
================================

pysharedutils
=============
`pysharedutils` is a convenient utility module which are not included in standard Python install.


Installation
------------

pysharedutils is available on PyPI, so to use it you can use :program:`pip`:

To install pysharedutils, simply run::

    $ pip install pysharedutils

Alternatively, if you don't have setuptools installed, `download it from PyPi <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pysharedutils>`_ and run::

    $ python setup.py install

Also, you can get the source from `GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_ and install it as above::

    $ git clone https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils.git
    $ cd pysharedutils
    $ python setup.py install

:doc:`examples`
  Some quick usage examples.

Contribute
----------
Always looking for contributions, additions and improvements.

The source is available on `GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_
and contributions are always encouraged.

To contribute, fork the project on
`GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_ and submit a pull request. If you have notices bugs or issues with the library, you can add it to the `Issue Tracker <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils/issues>`_.

Install development requirements. It is highly recommended that you use a `virtualenv <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_, and activate the virtualenv before installing the requirements.

Install project requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Run tests with coverage::

    $ make unit_test

Run test Using Tox (Runs the tests in different supported python interpreter)::

    $ tox

Run Lint::

    $ make lint

Create a new local branch to submit a pull request::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-feature

Commit your changes::

    $ git commit -m "Detailed commit message"

Push up your changes::

    $ git push origin name-of-feature

Submit a pull request. Before submitting a pull request, make sure pull request add the functionality, it is tested and docs are updated.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :numbered:
    :hidden:

    examples

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add changelogs and link to download ofline docs

docs/index.rst, after:

================================
pysharedutils User Documentation
================================

pysharedutils
=============
`pysharedutils` is a convenient utility module which are not included in standard Python install.


Installation
------------

pysharedutils is available on PyPI, so to use it you can use :program:`pip`:

To install pysharedutils, simply run::

    $ pip install pysharedutils

Alternatively, if you don't have setuptools installed, `download it from PyPi <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pysharedutils>`_ and run::

    $ python setup.py install

Also, you can get the source from `GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_ and install it as above::

    $ git clone https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils.git
    $ cd pysharedutils
    $ python setup.py install

:doc:`examples`
  Some quick usage examples.

Changes
-------

See the :doc:`changelog` for a full list of changes to pyserializer.

.. note::  Always read `changelog <changelog.html>`_ documentation before
    putting updates live in production.

Offline Documentation
---------------------

Download the docs in `pdf <https://media.readthedocs.org/pdf/py-shared-utils/latest/py-shared-utils.pdf>`_
or `epub <https://readthedocs.org/projects/py-shared-utils/downloads/epub/latest/>`_
formats for offline reading.

Contribute
----------
Always looking for contributions, additions and improvements.

The source is available on `GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_
and contributions are always encouraged.

To contribute, fork the project on
`GitHub <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils>`_ and submit a pull request. If you have notices bugs or issues with the library, you can add it to the `Issue Tracker <https://github.com/joeljames/py-shared-utils/issues>`_.

Install development requirements. It is highly recommended that you use a `virtualenv <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_, and activate the virtualenv before installing the requirements.

Install project requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Run tests with coverage::

    $ make unit_test

Run test Using Tox (Runs the tests in different supported python interpreter)::

    $ tox

Run Lint::

    $ make lint

Create a new local branch to submit a pull request::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-feature

Commit your changes::

    $ git commit -m "Detailed commit message"

Push up your changes::

    $ git push origin name-of-feature

Submit a pull request. Before submitting a pull request, make sure pull request add the functionality, it is tested and docs are updated.


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :numbered:
    :hidden:

    examples
    changelog

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
